Diwali is celebrated in the Hindu month of Kartikamasam which falls sometime during October or November. It is celebrated to mark the return of Lord Rama from 14 years of Exile and his victory over the Demon Ravana. In many parts of India, Diwali is celebrated for five consecutive days and is one of the most popular festivals in India. Hindus regard it as a celebration of life and use the occasion to strengthen family and relationships. Hindus light up their homes and shops, to welcome the goddess Lakshmi, to give them good luck for the year ahead. A few days before Ravtegh, which is the day before Diwali, houses, buildings, shops and temples are thoroughly cleaned, whitewashed and decorated with pictures, toys and flowers.On the day of Diwali, people put on their best clothes and exchange greetings, gifts and sweets with their friends and family. At night, buildings are illuminated with earthen lamps, candle-sticks and electric bulbs. Sweets and toy shops are decorated to attract the passers-by. The bazaars and-streets are overcrowded. People buy sweets for their own families and also send them as presents to their friends and relatives. At night, the goddess Lakshmi, is worshiped in the form of earthen images , silver rupee. Hindus believe that on this day, Lakshmi enters only the houses which are neat and tidy. Pollution is when something harmful is added to the environment. Polluted water or garbage in the water bodies is a type of pollution. Sewage in drinking water is another type of pollution. It adds germs and viruses. There are these kinds of pollution: water pollution, air pollution, noise pollution, soil pollution, and thermal pollution. As pollution grows, ways to combat it have grown. Solar energy and wind energy give people clean ways to power their homes. When people use these alternative forms of energy, they put less carbon dioxide into the environment. Air can be polluted by many things. Examples include poisonous gases, sulphur dioxide, nitrogen dioxide, carbon monoxide and very small particulates. Smoke and harmful gases released by fires, industries, and thermal power plants cause air pollution. Using coal and wood as fuels for fire cause a lot of air pollution. Petroleum produces less pollution per ton, but it causes a lot of pollution since a lot of it is burned globally. Air pollution may cause breathing problems such as asthma or other health problems. Air pollution causes global warming and acid rain. This makes it difficult for some living things to survive. Water pollution is the presence of harmful materials in water, such as sewage, dissolved metal, waste from farms, factories and crude oil spilled from oil tankers. The three main substances that pollute water are nitrates from fertilizers, sewage and detergents. Activities such as bathing and washing clothes near lakes, ponds or rivers add nutrients like nitrate and phosphate into the water bodies. This leads to excessive growth of algae on the surface of water. It blocks the penetration of sunlight and air, thus reducing oxygen. In extreme cases, it may cause diseases like cancer.
